1. Welcome to expert viewpoint, getting started with Flutter in this video, Halle, Vogelpohl and Alay Ponkiya will discuss Flutter and some resources for developers. What is Flutter, why should developers use it? And what are good resources for starting with Flutter? Flutter is an open source software development kit or SDK for cross-platform mobile application development. And it relies on on a library of premade widgets which make development fast and simple. It's great if your team is building quickly and you want one code base for both platforms. It's also easy to pick up because of the built in widgets for UI like text, buttons, images, et cetera. 

2. Some essential resources and integrated development environments I recommend for beginners, who want to get started with Flutter are firstly just flutter documentation. Go to the website and play around there. There's also YouTube tutorials and Flutter tutorials on the documentation. And for integrated development environments you can use versus code or Android Studio, Android Studio does have some great built in features for working specifically with Android development. So Flutter is an open source UI software development kit provided by Google, allowing developers to build it natively compiled a mobile application, web application and desktop application from a single code base. Few reasons to consider it are single code base, fast development customization options are available because it provides rich set of widgets, high performance access of native features available through plugins and last is growing community and ecosystem. A few essential resources and IDEs for Flutters are like official Flutter documentation is available to refer it, to learn it and to develop the mobile application in Flutter. 

3. Another one is flutter codelabs, is available and few ides are versus code Android Studio, Intellij, et cetera.